---
title: "Day 1: Design Document"
layout: page
nav_order: 1
---

# Day 1: Design Document and Project Scope
{: .no_toc }

The crew began work on the initial version of the Crafting
System. We defined our learning goals, created a design document, specified the scope of
the project, set up a new Unity project, and wrote a simple implementation of a [ShapelessRecipe].

* [Watch On YouTube](https://youtube.com/live/_S4JNwdGPEo?feature=share)
* [Source Code at the End of Day 1](https://github.com/CaptainCoderOrg/CraftingSystem/tree/end-of-day-1)

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>


## Learning Goals

We began by defining a "Learning Goals and Scope" document.

![Learning Goals]

For those who are not fluent in check scratch, let me translate for you:

1. How to use Scriptable Objects (I've been avoiding this one for too long now)
2. Using a DLL in Unity rather than defining the source code directly in Unity
3. How to use the UI Toolkit during Play mode (We fiddled with it in Editor mode in the last project)


## Project Scope

![Scope]

Once again, let me translate:

The goal is to create a prototype crafting system in 7 days. Each day I plan to
stream for at least 3 hours (more if I have the time and energy).  Although the
stream is incredibly fun, it can also be quite distracting. With this in mind, I
decided to estimate that I will be performing between 10 and 12 hours of actual
coding work total over the 7 days.

With this in mind, the following scope was defined:

* `CraftingContainer` - a 2 dimensional grid that can hold ingredients. The shape
  of the grid does not have to be rectangular. Each `CraftingContainer` specifies
  a set of `CraftingCategory` that it can be used to craft.

* `CraftingCategory` - A struct that defines a crafting category. For example:
  Wood Working, Blacksmithing, Tailoring, Jewelry.

* `ShapelessRecipe` - The definition of a simple recipe. This contains 3
  properties: a list of `Item`s representing ingredients, a `CraftingCategory`
  which ultimately specifies the type of `CraftingContainer`s that can be used
  to combine the ingredients, and a list of `Item`s representing the result of
  crafting the recipe.

* `IItem` - In this version of the crafting system, we will define an interface
  `IItem` that external users of the Crafting System must implement.

* Lastly, I would like to implement an efficient look up for the recipes based
  on the crafting container and ingredients. For example, if someone puts 3
  Metal Bits in a Blacksmith container, it might produce a Metal Stud. How do we
  efficiently detect that 3 Metal Bits produces a Metal Stud? I do not want to
  iterate over all possible recipes. Instead, I would like a quick lookup that
  can determine if the set of values is in fact a recipe. 


## Unity Project Setup

After defining the learning goals and the scope of the project. I set up the
Unity Project. I knew I would like to be able to write Unit Tests so I walked
through the process of setting up a Editor Test Assembly.

Next, I wanted to separate out the logic for the crafting system from the
UnityEngine itself (this is where I hope to extract a DLL). So, I created
another assembly for the CaptainCoder.CraftingSystem namespace. After
reflecting, I think it might make sense to put this project in the
CaptainCoder.AdventureQuest namespace as I hope to use that project in tandem
with this one. 

## Implementing a Simple ShaplessRecipe

With the assemblies defined. It was time to implement the first pass of
[ShapelessRecipe]. We defined a constructor and 3 properties:

```csharp
public ShapelessRecipe(IEnumerable<IItem> ingredients, RecipeCategory category, IEnumerable<IItem> result);
public IEnumerable<IItem> Ingredients { get; }
public IEnumerable<IItem> Result { get; }
public RecipeCategory Category { get; }
```

Additionally, we wrote a unit test to test that the constructor populates the 3
properties in a readonly fashion to "baby proof" the project from ourselves.

To help support this class an interface IItem was specified (which perhaps
should be renamed to IIngredient to avoid name conflicts?). As well as the
simple RecipeCategory struct which currently is just a wrapper for a string
Name.

The result from today can be found here: [ShapelessRecipe](https://github.com/CaptainCoderOrg/CraftingSystem/blob/end-of-day-1/RPG%20Crafting%20System/Assets/CaptainCoder/CraftingSystem/ShapelessRecipe.cs)

Additionally, we implemented a very simple [ShapelessRecipeTest]. To support
this, a basic implementation of `IItem` was needed. It was implemented as
`Item`. It might make sense to simply remove this and instead within the Test
Assembly create a `MockItem` to meet our needs.

The unit tests can be found here: [ShaplessRecipeTest](https://github.com/CaptainCoderOrg/CraftingSystem/blob/end-of-day-1/RPG%20Crafting%20System/Assets/Crafting%20Tests/CaptainCoder/CraftingSystem/ShapelessRecipeTest.cs)



{% include Links.md %}