---
title: "Day 2: Using DLLs"
layout: page
nav_order: 2
---

# Day 2: Using DLLs and Defining a Crafting Container
{: .no_toc }

The crew continued work on the Crafting System. Today, we explored how to link
an external **DLL** within a Unity project, began the `CaptainCoder.Core`
library, defined the API for the [CraftingContainer] class, and began writing
a unit tests for [CraftingContainer].

* [Watch On YouTube](https://youtube.com/live/IA66jZh51h8)
* [Source Code at the End of Day 2](https://github.com/CaptainCoderOrg/CraftingSystem/tree/end-of-day-2)

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
1. TOC
{:toc}
</details>

Today's goals were:

0. ~~Figure out how to use DLL in Unity~~
1. ~~Define CraftingContainer Class~~
2. Implement a RecipeDatabase Class
3. Implement CraftingContainer 


## Adding a DLL to Unity

As we began to implement the [CraftingContainer] class, it became very apparent
that it would be useful to have a [Position] struct to represent a (Row, Column)
within the `CraftingContainer`. Having implemented this struct in the past, it seemed
like a good time to stop and consider how to write an external library and add it
into the Unity project.

To do this, we created a new .NET Class Library project. To ensure compatibility
with Unity, it was important to specify that it should target the `.NET Standard
2.1` framework. Because we are now writing code outside of unity, it was also possible
to specify that we would like to use C# 11 as our language version. After a short hiccup,
the crew found a solution and the `.csproj` file looks like this:

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>netstandard2.1</TargetFramework>
    <Nullable>enable</Nullable>
    <LangVersion>11</LangVersion>
  </PropertyGroup>
</Project>
```

### The Position struct

Because we are using C# 11, we are able to define `Position` as a record struct:

```csharp
namespace CaptainCoder.Core;

public record struct Position(int Row, int Col);
```

Isn't that beautiful? Next, we build the project which produces a **dll** that
can be placed within Unity. Because we likely will continue to build upon the
`CaptainCoder.Core` library, I wrote a small script which copies the **dll**
into the Unity project's `Assets/Libs` folder each time the project needs to be
built. The name of this folder should probably be considered.

### Referencing CaptainCoder.dll in the Unity Project

All that was left was to reference `CaptainCoder.dll` in the Unity Project
assemblies. To do this, we discovered that you must tick the check box `Override
References` in the Inspector for the Assembly. Then, you can select
`CaptainCoder.dll` from the `Assembly Reference` drop down.

![Override References]

Once this was done, I did need to reload Visual Studio Code but was able to 
access the `CaptainCoder.Core` namespace. Awesome! 

**LEARNING GOAL #2 ACHIEVED**

Learning Goal #2: Learn how to use external DLLs in Unity

### Off Stream

Because I expect I will be using this library in future projects, I created a
repository specifically for `CaptainCoder.Core` and put it
[HERE](https://github.com/CaptainCoderOrg/CaptainCoder.Core). Then, I created a
submodule reference to it within the project. This will not appear in the tagged
version of the project until tomorrow.

## Crafting Container

A Crafting Container is defined as a 2D grid of positions where items can be
placed. For this initial version, all items will take up exactly 1 position
(though it might be cool to implement a version that has items with a variety of
sizes). We first began by discussing **HOW** the user will ultimately interact
with a crafting container:

![Crafting Container Interactions]

For those who cannot read chicken scratch, let me translate:

1. Add an item at an unoccupied `Position`.
2. Handle attempting to add an item at an invalid `Position`
3. Handle attempting to add an item to a `Position` that is occupied
4. Handle moving an item within the `CraftingContainer`
5. Handle removing items

This ultimately led to the following API (which we may still change):

```csharp
public class CraftingContainer<T> where T : IItem
{
    public CraftingContainer(int rows, int columns, IEnumerable<CraftingCategory> categories, IEnumerable<Position> invalidPositions = null);
    public int Rows { get; }
    public int Columns { get; }
    public HashSet<CraftingCategory> Categories { get; }
    public HashSet<Position> InvalidPositions { get; }
    public IEnumerable<(Position, T)> Positions { get; }

    /// <summary>
    /// Attempts to add the specified <paramref name="item"/> into this <see cref="CraftingContainer"/>
    /// at the specified <paramref name="position"/>. 
    /// Returns true, if the item was added and false otherwise.
    /// </summary>
    public bool TryAddItem(Position position, T item);
    public bool Move(Position from, Position to);
    public bool TryRemove(Position position, out T removed);
    public bool TryItemAt(Position position, out T result);
    public T ItemAt(Position position);
    public bool HasItemAt(Position position) => _grid.ContainsKey(position);

}
```

* The full code from day 2 is available here: [LINK](https://github.com/CaptainCoderOrg/CraftingSystem/blob/end-of-day-2/RPG%20Crafting%20System/Assets/CaptainCoder/CraftingSystem/CraftingContainer.cs)
* Additionally, we began writing a test for the `CraftingContainer` class which is available here: [LINK](https://github.com/CaptainCoderOrg/CraftingSystem/blob/end-of-day-2/RPG%20Crafting%20System/Assets/Crafting%20Tests/CaptainCoder/CraftingSystem/CraftingContainerTest.cs)

The tests are far from complete but we are off to a great start managing to
finish two of the days goals. Tomorrow we shall continue our quest! Do we have
enough time? Will the Captain go insane? Find out next time!

{% include Links.md %}